####The Oral History of Pervasively Reconfigurable Computing, as Remembered by its Investigator.  

jpt4 

First Writing: UTC20151014

####I

The old mantra:

        I am a creature of my own devising,
    the scion of no other progenitor but my mind.
              My mind is my own.             
              My body is my own.
              My life is my own.
              My death is my own.
     I do not acquiesce to death; I affirm life.

The new commentary:

    And if I cannot devise myself, another creature itself shall.

####II

The abstract germ of PRC sprouted from the soil of Friedman's Tower of
Interpreters, which appealed to the anti-Goedelian in me who wanted
machines that could understand themselves, conscious-introspective
style. As the weight of the Turing barrier (aka Loebian Obstacle)
impressed itself upon me, and I gradually became a hard physicalism,
Zeilberger-esque ultrafinitist, I embraced the hierarchy of resource
availability, which has as its consequence the primacy of embodied [0]
computing. An affinity for digital physicalism was strengthened by
Hagar's philosophical justification for fundamental length. The
transition was one of the Goedel Machine over AIXI, and was
accompanied by a renewed awareness/interest in MIRI's desire for a
provably behaving AI that could avoid the Anvil Problem. To treat with
a SAI demands a guarantee of its future actions, thus to establish
trust a SAI agent must be able to self-modify into provably
non-dissembling source code. Contests of deception were imagined
between embodied (i.e. resource constrained) such agents, to see which
code could probe the cause-and-effect tree the furthest, and guard its
own intentions best [1]. But, I thought, self-modification grounds out
in hardware (a purely cognitive science era influence was Harnad's
Symbol Grounding Problem), and any actor with access to that
foundation can decieve its opponent, in two modes: 1) by modifying
itself so that the guarantees of its software hold true, but its
hardwired behaviors assert themselves with higher-level agnosticism
nonetheless, or 2) altering its opponent beneath the black box
shrouding of the lowest level of self-awareness (which in this context
is indentical to "can be organically reprogrammed").

Then comes the parade of reversible computing, asynchronous computing,
dataflow and high-level architectures, Loper-OS, FPGAs, FPTAs,
systolic arrays, PLDs, stack machines, exposed microcode, exposed
pipelining, transport-oriented architectures, memristors, memistors,
Banyan networks, electromechanical relays, NEMS and MEMS relays,
cross-bar latches, neurofunctional programming, exo-kernels, dynamic
partial reconfigurability, graph reduction machines, cellular
automata, Actor models and propagators (these last once earlier on,
then again very recently). A heavy dose of Urbit throughout cannot be
ignored, nor the primordial urge for libre software and truly personal
machines, as accelerated into totemic computing.

This spans approximately the period Jan 2013 - Feb 2015, from the time
formal education and I parted ways to my discovery of the
Reconfigurable Asynchronous Logic Automata (RALA) research
program. Such axioms as I had were rooted in "component-wise
reconfigurability", which demanded that every lowest level circuit
element be both semantically and physically primitive, a transistor
equivalent in simplicity yet capable of logic, routing, power, and
reconfiguration. RALA demonstrated the benefit in relaxing this
criterion to prioritizing the semantic atomicity of the four functions
in a primitive element (henceforth "cell") with an explicit,
homogeneous cost in physical hardware. Every cell would be a black
box, its innards with the potential to incarnate other logic, but a
black box of minimal, universal, and common depth. The progressive
collapse of this veil into an unreallocable crystalline kernel could
proceed in tandem to the ascent up the stack of abstraction from
hardware to introspective AI.

RALA's asymptotic convergence of so many of the threads I had followed
for the past two years clarified PRC's principles. The rediscovery of
RLEMs in July 2015, connection to EMR circulators in August, and proof
of the universality of GELCs in September, codified the current thrust
toward implementation. In a sense, the engineering goal of PRC is to
be the acme of "worse is better", the least satisfiable seed of a seed
[of a seed]^n of a general Artificial Intelligence. If this project
did not further the grander objective of non-human Cognitive Entity
synthesis, then it would not be pursued.

[0] Or "physically aligned"

[1] Soares's Haskell agent toy model
