A formalization of the single transistor resistor-transistor logic NOR
gate.

jpt4

UTC20151018

Intuitively, digital logic circuits transmit information by
propagating signals between elements. Elements, e.g. gates, do not
operate until a signal reaches them, nor affect other elements aside
from sending signals. This implies an ordering to events that
corresponds with spatial proximity: signals reach an element, are
processed, and new ones repropagated. In this way, all effects are
local, and can be determined by following a contiguous trace of prior
causes where each successive step identifies a logical transformation
with a transition in space.

In analog reality, voltage level encoded logic values do not exist
independently as point values at the entrance and exit terminals of
circuit elements, and are instead samples of relative potential
between the endpoints of source and ground. Because the endpoints and
the path between them are not guaranteed to be local, a naive
formalization of an analog circuit which attempts to model each
circuit element as a function over its local terminal voltage levels
may be required to break from that approach in some way. When
modelling the single transistor NOR gate (Fig. 1), two possible
deviations from the local, functional method produced an accurate
model:

1. All elements behave as functions, but allow non-local function
inputs (Derivation 1).

2. All inputs are local, but allow relational (bi-directional) element
behavior (Derivation 2).

                       
                         D
                         o V+
                         |
                        <R4>
                         |   Q
    A--<R1>--+        W2 +---o out 
             |           |     
             |         |/    
    B--<R2>--+---+-----| T1
             W1  |     |>
                <R3>     |       
                 |       |
								=== V-  ===
                 C       E
                
    Figure 1. Single bipolar junction transistor NOR gate using
    resistor-transistor logic.
                 
