Describe your company in 50 characters or less.
We build computronium.

What is your company going to make?

Pervasively reconfigurable computing (PRC) hardware and its attendant
software stack. PRC formally specifies an asynchronous, logically
reversible, reconfigurable foundation for computing systems. PRC
hardware is composed of a homogenous matrix of bitwise processors,
each capable of executing a restricted set of logic, routing, and
reconfiguration operations. Our software will allow programmers to
take advantage of this fine-grained semantic resolution, to reason in
a unified manner about the behavior of their code from the bare metal
upwards, and modify any layer of the supporting architecture.

Why this idea? Existing domain expertise? How do you know there is a
need?

PRC is the organic culmination of our interests in high level
architectures (e.g. LISP machines, Burroughs Large Systems),
self-modifiable artificial intelligences, and the desire for a totemic
computing platform over which the operator has sovereign control, unto
its most basic components.

How novel? What currently substitutes?

Competitors? Fear?

Altera (and thus Intel), Xilinx, and the FPGA/soft IP core industry in
general are our most direct competitors. However, our greatest fear is
a materials science advance that resumes pre-2005 iterations in
Moore's Law for conventional CPUs before PRC harware enters the
market. Whether RISC versus CISC in the early '90s, the Transputer and
other asynchronous machines versus sychronous clocked microprocessors
in the '80s, or cryotronics versus silicon ICs in the '60s, ten
billion dollars worth of muscle dedicated to known processes can
overwhelm the structural advantages of alternative architectures. At
present, the Hz/Watt/$ ratio is in a trough where PRC can establish
itself, then reap the benefits of e.g. graphene, 3D-transistors, or
quantum advances in step with the rest of the industry.

Understand that others don't?

We recognize that the market exists. To our knowledge, no other
company is currently pursuing the mix of technologies that Autark is
with PRC. Theseus Logic is no longer developing their Null Convention
Logic asynchronous systems, which were neither reconfigurable nor
reversible. Tabula, employer of Conal Elliott, has done work towards
compiling high level symbolic languages to Boolean logic circuits, but
targets FPGAs. MIT's Center for Bits and Atoms patented their
Reconfigurable Asynchronous Logic Automata architecture (which is an
acknowledged influence on PRC), but did no further exploration into
reversible or non-Boolean logic.

The audience for fine grained reconfigurable, reversible,
asynchronous, formally defined hardware is not served at present, and
likely will not be in the absence of Autark.

Revenue streams/potential max?

Get users?

Surprising/amusing discovery.

Why YC?
